You know the drill. Please don't share this or post answers online. Responses,
ideally, to <responses@ matasanocryptopals.com>; RESPONSE: in the subject
line.

Good news: people that get this far tend to finish. More fun stuff ahead!

// ------------------------------------------------------------

25. Break "random access read/write" AES CTR

Back to CTR. Encrypt the recovered plaintext from

     https://gist.github.com/3132853

(the ECB exercise) under CTR with a random key (for this exercise the
key should be unknown to you, but hold on to it).

Now, write the code that allows you to "seek" into the ciphertext,
decrypt, and re-encrypt with different plaintext. Expose this as a
function, like, "edit(ciphertext, key, offet, newtext)".

Imagine the "edit" function was exposed to attackers by means of an
API call that didn't reveal the key or the original plaintext; the
attacker has the ciphertext and controls the offset and "new text".

Recover the original plaintext.

// ------------------------------------------------------------

26. CTR bit flipping

There are people in the world that believe that CTR resists
bit flipping attacks of the kind to which CBC mode is susceptible.

Re-implement the CBC bitflipping exercise (16) from earlier to use CTR mode
instead of CBC mode. Inject an "admin=true" token.

// ------------------------------------------------------------

27. Recover the key from CBC with IV=Key

Take your code from the CBC exercise (16) and modify it so that it
repurposes the key for CBC encryption as the IV. Applications
sometimes use the key as an IV on the auspices that both the sender
and the receiver have to know the key already, and can save some space
by using it as both a key and an IV.

Using the key as an IV is insecure; an attacker that can modify
ciphertext in flight can get the receiver to decrypt a value that will
reveal the key.

The CBC code from exercise 16 encrypts a URL string. Verify each byte
of the plaintext for ASCII compliance (ie, look for high-ASCII
values). Noncompliant messages should raise an exception or return an
error that includes the decrypted plaintext (this happens all the time
in real systems, for what it's worth).

Use your code to encrypt a message that is at least 3 blocks long:

  AES-CBC(P_1, P_2, P_3) -> C_1, C_2, C_3

Modify the message (you are now the attacker):

  C_1, C_2, C_3 -> C_1, 0, C_1

Decrypt the message (you are now the receiver) and raise the
appropriate error if high-ASCII is found.

As the attacker, recovering the plaintext from the error, extract the
key:

  P'_1 XOR P'_3

// ------------------------------------------------------------

28. Implement a SHA-1 keyed MAC

Find a SHA-1 implementation in the language you code in. Do not use
the SHA-1 implementation your language already provides (for instance,
don't use the "Digest" library in Ruby, or call OpenSSL; in Ruby,
you'd want a pure-Ruby SHA-1).

Write a function to authenticate a message under a secret key by using
a secret-prefix MAC, which is simply:

  SHA1(key || message)

Verify that you cannot tamper with the message without breaking the
MAC you've produced, and that you can't produce a new MAC without
knowing the secret key.

// ------------------------------------------------------------

29. Break a SHA-1 keyed MAC using length extension

Secret-prefix SHA-1 MACs are trivially breakable.

The attack on secret-prefix SHA1 relies on the fact that you can take
the ouput of SHA-1 and use it as a new starting point for SHA-1, thus
taking an arbitrary SHA-1 hash and "feeding it more data".

Since the key precedes the data in secret-prefix, any additional data
you feed the SHA-1 hash in this fashion will appear to have been
hashed with the secret key.

To carry out the attack, you'll need to account for the fact that
SHA-1 is "padded" with the bit-length of the message; your forged
message will need to include that padding. We call this "glue
padding". The final message you actually forge will be:

          SHA1(key || original-message || glue-padding || new-message)

(where the final padding on the whole constructed message is implied)

Note that to generate the glue padding, you'll need to know the
original bit length of the message; the message itself is known to the
attacker, but the secret key isn't, so you'll need to guess at it.

This sounds more complicated than it is in practice.

To implement the attack, first write the function that computes the MD
padding of an arbitrary message and verify that you're generating the
same padding that your SHA-1 implementation is using. This should take
you 5-10 minutes.

Now, take the SHA-1 secret-prefix MAC of the message you want to forge
--- this is just a SHA-1 hash --- and break it into 32 bit SHA-1
registers (SHA-1 calls them "a", "b", "c", &c).

Modify your SHA-1 implementation so that callers can pass in new
values for "a", "b", "c" &c (they normally start at magic
numbers). With the registers "fixated", hash the additional data you
want to forge.

Using this attack, generate a secret-prefix MAC under a secret key
(choose a random word from /usr/share/dict/words or something) of the
string:

"comment1=cooking%20MCs;userdata=foo;comment2=%20like%20a%20pound%20of%20bacon"

Forge a variant of this message that ends with ";admin=true".

// ------------------------------------------------------------

30. Break an MD4 keyed MAC using length extension.

Second verse, same as the first, but use MD4 instead of SHA-1. Having
done this attack once against SHA-1, the MD4 variant should take much
less time; mostly just the time you'll spend Googling for an
implementation of MD4.

// ------------------------------------------------------------

31. Implement HMAC-SHA1 and break it with an artificial timing leak.

The psuedocode on Wikipedia should be enough. HMAC is very easy.

Using the web framework of your choosing (Sinatra, web.py, whatever),
write a tiny application that has a URL that takes a "file" argument
and a "signature" argument, like so:

http://localhost:9000/test?file=foo&signature=46b4ec586117154dacd49d664e5d63fdc88efb51

Have the server generate an HMAC key, and then verify that the
"signature" on incoming requests is valid for "file", using the "=="
operator to compare the valid MAC for a file with the "signature"
parameter (in other words, verify the HMAC the way any normal
programmer would verify it).

Write a function, call it "insecure_compare", that implements the ==
operation by doing byte-at-a-time comparisons with early exit (ie,
return false at the first non-matching byte).

In the loop for "insecure_compare", add a 50ms sleep (sleep 50ms after
each byte).

Use your "insecure_compare" function to verify the HMACs on incoming
requests, and test that the whole contraption works. Return a 500 if
the MAC is invalid, and a 200 if it's OK.

Using the timing leak in this application, write a program that
discovers the valid MAC for any file.

// ------------------------------------------------------------

32. Break HMAC-SHA1 with a slightly less artificial timing leak

Reduce the sleep in your "insecure_compare" until your previous
solution breaks. (Try 5ms to start.)

Now break it again.

// ------------------------------------------------------------
